[Music]
i recently put out a poll asking our
community what was their favorite
playstation handheld in 2020 and white
the results were quite surprising with
both the psp
and vito receiving about an equal amount
of the just over 700 votes in total
and whilst our community isn't the
biggest i'd like to think that it is
full of individuals like myself
who are both passionate and invested in
video games which makes this result
quite interesting let's have a look at
some of the comments with the face
coming in from
nylon who stated psp mostly because the
psp
go had such a good form factor the vita
is great in itself and it emulates the
psp
so much better overall but the lack of
publisher's attention
no playstation 2 eboots and no v to go
which would fit in your pocket hurt it
overall now some interesting points are
raised here mainly the lack of
publishers attention which in all
honesty
truly hurt the playstation beta's
success as towards the end of its life
a lot of supports just disappeared as
opposed to the psp
that received an abundance of games
throughout its life cycle
and it's a real shame as the vita had
the potential to be an amazing machine
but i think mainly due to the
proprietary memory cards that were
required really hurt it
i mean the price of those things were
insane and to be fair it's no wonder
that the beta
never managed to reach the heights of
psp which used a much more widely
accepted and cheaper form of memory
moving on to another comment left by a
user known as valyrian v
that said on a technical level the vita
perfected what the psp set out to do
for games hotline miami persona 4 golden
gravity rush
spelunky everybody's golf and wipeout
2048 will be
favorites for life i agree with its oled
screen touch capability
and built-in gyroscope the vita is one
of the finest handhelds that was ever
released
it truly did feel like a natural
evolution of psp as valyrian states
just turning on the machine saw you
greeted with a vibrant and colorful
screen that was truly like nowhere when
it comes to a fully dedicated handheld
gaming device
but of course the biggest inclusion was
the addition of a second analog stick
that finally opened up
playstation's handheld experiences to a
much more manageable form
of control nearly every psp game that
required the player to control the
camera was a real pain in the ass
so adding a second analog to the beta
felt like a no-brainer and the games
that
utilized it were all the more better for
it our next comment coming in from
seth dean i feel like the psp library
was a lot better and it was way ahead of
its time now i tend to agree with satya
the psp received this huge amount of
games from nearly every genre out there
such classics as metal gear solid peace
walker prinny
tekken dark resurrection loco roco final
fantasy tactics and even a version of
gran turismo that it could call its own
there is no arguing the fact that the
psp had a more diverse set of games
available for it
when compared to the vita and that's not
to say that there are not any worthwhile
games on the playstation vita as that
would be a huge mistake but in all
honesty whatever type of gamer you are
there is bound to be something on the
psp that would satisfy your tastes and
even though it's possible to now
jailbreak the vita and essentially load
any psp game you could ever want onto it
not all gamers feel comfortable with
doing that with some rather choosing to
instead acquire physical copies
and for those people the psp would no
doubt be the better option
here's another comment left by octavio
that stated the vita is a jrpg treasure
chest
i must say though that i owned a modded
psp back in the day
and i always tell people that the modded
psp destroyed ipods and smartphones of
its day it even played youtube before
they did but the vita takes it if you
have a hotspot on your phone you can
essentially take your playstation 4 with
you on the go with remote play
now this comment rings true as octavio
mentioned the vita is a literal jrpg
powerhouse with such games like final
fantasy 10 hd persona 4 and trails of
cold steel there is a huge amount of
adventures just waiting to be
experienced
and due to the portable nature of the
handheld it's so easy to just get in a
few minutes here and there which really
helps out when it comes to grinding
those levels but the biggest feature and
perhaps most compelling on the beta
is the ability to remotely play
playstation 4 games on the go
bearing in mind this depends on the type
of internet connection you have and can
lead to some rather varying results if
it's not up to the task but when it
works it is incredible as octavio says
being able to play some of the best
aaa games away from the home is a great
inclusion that really helps the vita
exceed
one comment that caught my eye comes in
from justin mckenzie who simply stated
my one
and only reason is persona 4 golden now
i think this comment will ring true with
many people watching as persona 4 has to
be one of the most enthralling
and rewarding rpgs on the system in all
honesty it is one of the best reasons to
own the handheld as having the ability
to pull it out and play this classic
wherever you are
is a real advantage in my opinion now i
know it won't be for everyone and using
one game is a reason to own a system
over and over may seem a bit stupid to
those who won't enjoy it but for those
that have sampled the greatness that is
persona 4 golden you'll know exactly
what i'm talking about now that's not to
say there are not any worthwhile rpgs on
the psp
though as our system is also full of
great experiences that are bound to
satisfy fans of the genre as well but
it's justin stated persona 4 is one hell
of a reason to choose a vita over a psp
especially if you're fond of rpgs moving
on to another comment left by dusty
storm that stated psp
all the way much more of a cool handheld
with the umd's
and its sites i for one loved the umd
format which stood for universal media
disk and essentially allowed the psp to
hold up to nearly two gigabytes of
information on a dual layer disk because
of this many psp games were fully
realized versions of their console
counterparts and allowed each title to
flourish
on top of this it also became a popular
way to watch movies with many great hits
releasing for the format
from ghost in the shell to the original
die hard there was a great selection of
films that could be taken with you
wherever you went as dusty states as
well the size of the machine was a real
place
especially the second iteration of the
console known as the slim
which was the perfect slice to slip into
a pocket and travel along with you
although the psp go did release later on
into the machine's life cycle which was
itself even smaller
it did take out the umd drive which
severely hampered its overall
versatility
i for one much prefer the overall design
and makeup of the psp to the vita but
that just comes down to personal taste
now last but not least we have a comment
from paulo which states
why is the psp this close to the beta
the vita is the psp on steroids with the
ability to play psp
games and the only reason i can see why
people would vote for the psp instead of
the vita is because they don't own one
go and buy a vita a mod it fall in love
with the psp
all over again with avita now this
statement is entirely correct for those
who are willing to mod their devices
as i mentioned earlier not everyone is
willing to do that but if you are that
vita is the clear winner when it comes
to comparing the two machines in 2020
the added feature set such as the screen
playstation 4 remote plate
and added input options really make it
the superior machine as when the beta is
modded you have the option to not only
put on psp games that are already
available on the store but also the ones
that were left out
along with a string of emulators that
can bring back years upon years of
incredible experiences from a whole
range of consoles
sure the psp can be modded as well but
the extras that come along with the vita
make it all the more worth it so what is
your favorite playstation handheld
system let me know in the comment
section below well that does it for
today's video
make sure to hit subscribe so you can
stay up to date with future videos and
as always
thanks for watching
[Music]
you